FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
Q1 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Deepak Ahuja
Elon R. Musk
Jeffrey B. Straubel
Jeffrey K. Evanson
Other Participants
Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Andrea Susan James, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Ben J. Kallo, Robert W. Baird & Co. (Broker)
Brian A. Johnson, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Colin W. Rusch, Northland Securities, Inc.
Craig E. Irwin, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
John D. Lovallo, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Patrick K. Archambault, Goldman Sachs & Co.
Rahul X. Chadha, UBS Securities LLC
Rod A. Lache, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Tesla Motors first quarter 2014
financial results Q&A call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later,
we will conduct a question and answer session; instructions will follow at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Jeff Evanson with Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
Jeffrey K. Evanson {BIO 1535168 <GO>}
Thank you, Patrick, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Tesla's first quarter
financial results question and answer webcast. I'm joined today by Elon Musk, Tesla's
Chairman and CEO, and Deepak Ahuja, Tesla's Chief Financial Officer, as well as JB
Straubel, our Chief Technology Officer.
We announced first quarter results today in our quarterly Shareholder Letter. This
letter is available at the same link as this webcast. Also, a replay of this webcast will
Page 1 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
be available later today at the same link.
Please note that certain financial measures used on this call, such as revenue and
income, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude the
effect of lease accounting used on Model S sales, with the residual value guarantee,
and charges related to stock-based compensation. Our GAAP results and
reconciliations to non-GAAP measures can be found in the Shareholder Letter.
During the course of this call, we may discuss our business outlook and make other
forward-looking statements. Such statements are predictions based on
management's expectations as of today. Actual events or results could differ
materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
So we are ready to take questions. So please press *1 to ask a question. We are
going to try to limit the call to about 45 minutes. So please be respectful of other
callers by limiting your questions.
So, Patrick, let's have the first question please.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from Brian Johnson with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - Brian A. Johnson {BIO 21263539 <GO>}
Yes, good afternoon. I know, Elon, you're back from China. Just wanted to get a
sense of what the order book in China is looking for? How much of a contribution
that's going to make to your especially second half implied delivery targets? And
then, do you have to get beyond Beijing or Shanghai this year in order to grow
further in China?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Well, I really don't think we've got any kind of demand challenge in China. In fact, I
was blown away by my visit to China at the level of interest and enthusiasm for Tesla
and the amount of goodwill that I encountered from people at all levels, from the
government, from people in industry, and consumers in general. And I'm really
optimistic for how things will go there.
We are trying to expand our service centers and Supercharger coverage as fast as
possible in China. It's not to generate sales. It's just in order to be able to deal with
the cars that we deliver in market. So we're really doing very few stores in China. Our
focus is 90% plus on service centers and Superchargers. And then I think we'll
actually have to limit the amount of cars we send to China, otherwise it would starve
the rest-of-world production. So, I mean, that's really how we view things there.
Page 2 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
I did mention that we elected to do local vehicle production in China in three or four
years, although I should mention that goodwill existed before I said that. Goodwill
wasn't a as function of that. But that will be for vehicles delivered to the local market
in China and perhaps to some surrounding countries. And actually, just to be clearer,
that wouldn't mean shifting any production from California. That would be assuming
that California is starting to reach its max production. It makes sense for us to start
looking at local country factories. And we would be looking at one in Europe as well.
These are really aimed at minimizing logistics costs, because shipping two tons of
metal over long distances is not very efficient. So it's just a sensible thing to do is to
try to satisfy local demand with local production over time.
Q - Brian A. Johnson {BIO 21263539 <GO>}
And any sense of quantification, either the orders or the deposits or the wait times in
China?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
We're actually really trying to get the wait times down in China. It's really quite a long
wait time. In fact, the only source of unhappiness that I encountered in China was
that some customers who are in some of the midsized cities are unhappy that we're
delaying their deliveries, because it'll take us a bit longer to get the service and
Supercharger access, but service is a necessary requirement. We can't have a service
center be like 500 miles away from where somebody lives. So our biggest issue in
China is, like, customer unhappiness that they're not getting their cars soon enough.
And I think the wait time is quite long. In some cases it's like four months or five
months or something like that.
Q - Brian A. Johnson {BIO 21263539 <GO>}
Thanks.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Okay.
A - Jeffrey K. Evanson {BIO 1535168 <GO>}
Thanks, Brian.
Operator
Our next question comes from Andrea James with Dougherty & Company. Your line
is open.
Q - Andrea Susan James {BIO 20758120 <GO>}
Thanks for taking my questions. Your R&D expense is ramping pretty significantly
sequentially in Q2, and I was wondering if you could just talk about what
components make up the R&D increase? And then also in line with that, how are the
costs to bring the Model X to market kind of tracking against your earlier
expectations?
Page 3 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Hi, AJ. So our R&D expenses went up exactly as planned in Q1, and it's primarily
driven by all the engineering design and testing work that's going on, on our new
product development. It's the Model X, as well as what we're doing to get the Model
S ready for China and other markets.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah, for example, like right-hand drive is -
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Exactly.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Japan localization, China localization, UK.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Right.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Hong Kong, that kind of thing.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Right, so it's more driven by those expenses rather than just head count increases,
and so these are the cyclical expenses that you typically see before the launch of
new products.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah, I should say that some of that is also that we want to do ongoing improvement
to the Model S. As time's gone by, we've made hundreds of small improvements to
the car. And lot of these people wouldn't necessarily notice, but I think collectively
they add up to an improved experience with the car. So we've made some
improvements in seat comfort, for example. And here and there in fit and finish.
We're modifying the rear door so it can open wider, so rear ingress and egress has
improved. There's a whole bunch much things -
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Software improvements that we continue to make -
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
We continue to make software improvements. I think there's some – it's very exciting,
software updates that are going to come out in the next few months that will improve
the experience for the whole fleet of customers out there. And if anyone's thinking
Page 4 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
about asking me about that, I'm not going to say what they are, so just – it's a lot of
information as it is. But I think customers can certainly look forward to some really
awesome functionality improvements in their existing car.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
We're doing lot more in-country testing before launching in new markets to make
sure it's an outstanding customer experience. We did that in China and doing in
other countries too.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. Exactly. I was mentioning earlier, there was a bit of unhappiness in China about
some of the midsized cities, delaying customers' deliveries. But what we found is
that it's more important that we can service the cars really well, the charging is sorted
out, and to make sure that when customers do get their car, they have an excellent
experience. And I think we didn't do as good a job as we should have done in some
of our prior market launches. We want to make sure we recognize that mistake and
correct it going forward.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
And I want to make sure I mention Model X costs are also obviously driving the
increased R&D expenses as we're working through Model X.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Model X is like the biggest driver of R&D expense, honestly. With the X, we're really
trying to make an amazing car and, very importantly, to have a car that – where the
production version is better than the prototype, better than the show car. The one
thing that drives me crazy about the car industry is like you'll often these great show
cars. And then when you actually get the production car, it's some bizarre, dumbed-
down facsimile of the exciting prototype that was displayed. That's terrible.
The baseline expectation says that whenever we have a prototype, the production
car is better in every way. So that's quite difficult to do and requires some greater
problem solving. With Model X, the one biggest challenge is the falcon-wing door,
making sure that is truly a step-change and utility for the car, and not a gimmick. So
it's got to work perfectly, and the details have to be just right, and it's amazing how
like seating and little things become quite significant engineering challenges, such
as for example, getting the seals on the falcon-wing door to work properly and not
be too prominent. So that you've got a seal, obviously, against rain, wind, snow and
against road noise, but you've got to – something that's articulating across multiple
hinges, you've got key junction joints and that kind of thing. So it's quite a difficult
sealing problem to get it right and be consistent and remain good over many years.
So we spent a lot of time on seal engineering.
Q - Andrea Susan James {BIO 20758120 <GO>}
Thank you for the thorough response. And one more and then I'm done. Why
haven't your Gigafactory partner or partners, why haven't they signed on the dotted
Page 5 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
line yet?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
I was actually – I was waiting for somebody to ask that question. So we actually do
have a letter of intent signed with Panasonic. So we're happy to announce that we
have a letter of intent signed. I mean, for us that's actually not that big of a deal
because our expectation has always been that Panasonic would be the partner with
the Gigafactory. I believe that's been Panasonic's intent. And in fact just to make sure
we're both on the same page, JB spoke with Panasonic yesterday just to make sure
we're on exactly the same page. So, JB, do you want to just elaborate on that?
A - Jeffrey B. Straubel {BIO 16619298 <GO>}
Sure. Well, as Elon said, we do have a signed letter of intent, and under that letter of
intent, we've also created a joint working team between Panasonic and Tesla that's
working almost daily, certainly weekly, exploring all the mutual topics and answering
questions and making progress. We're actually quite comfortable that we're heading
toward final agreements in the later part of this year, and it's something where, as we
said, it doesn't seem like a big step change. It's something that's been progressing
smoothly for the last months, and we feel confident in it.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. I think we're quite confident, highly confident at this point of achieving the
30% reduction in costs per kilowatt hour, maybe moving towards – I'll say cautiously
optimistic about exceeding that number. Now, I don't want to make any
commitments, but I think we've got a decent chance of exceeding that number.
As we explore the cost structure on the supply chain, we're kind of talking with a
number of other companies that make the precursor materials. We've found that
there's really a lot of opportunity for innovation and overall cost reduction. And, in
fact, we've had a number of conversations that are really interesting with mining
companies talking about some of the key constituents that go into the cell, such as
nickel and the cobalt, the lithium, although lithium is sometimes thought of as a
bigger thing than it really is for lithium ion cells, it's like using maybe a couple
percent of the cell mass.
But the biggest cost constituent is nickel. And so we're in conversations with some of
the big nickel mines in Canada in particular. And we've been really I'd say positively
surprised by the potential for cost reduction on producing the precursor materials.
And it's kind of funny. It's like the – in talking to like of mining companies, it's like
nobody ever calls them. We call them up and, like, hey we never get calls from
companies like Tesla. (15:46) metal exchange or for the big stainless steel
companies, because nickel is a common alloy and constituent in steel, and like
cutlery, for example, usually involves quite a bit of nickel. So your knife and fork is
usually electroplated nickel silver is usually what they do.
So the mining guys were like super-happy to hear from us and have quite good
ideas for how to optimize the cost of materials, for minimizing logistics and
Page 6 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
processing and just doing a fairly sensible things, lot of it's actually quite obvious, to
create a supply chain that can deliver a large volume of battery packs with
dramatically reduced costs.
And I should say we're also trying to do our best to ensure that in the supply of the
components for the cell that our suppliers, going all the way to the mine level, are
companies that operate in a good and fair way. Like, do they take reasonable care
from an environmental standpoint, do they take care of the people working in the
mine? That kind of thing. So as much as we can, we want to make sure that our
suppliers are good suppliers.
Q - Andrea Susan James {BIO 20758120 <GO>}
Fantastic. Thank you so much.
Operator
Our next question comes from Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - Adam Jonas {BIO 3339456 <GO>}
First question is to follow up on the Gigafactory. Is the formal announcement, or kind
of more than a letter of intent, a prerequisite for breaking ground on the factory?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
No, we actually expect to break ground on the first Gigafactory location – actually I
don't want to be precise about this because I don't want any of the states with which
we're talking to sort of have the wrong impression. We're going to move forward
with breaking ground on multiple sites in order to minimize the risk of completion of
Gigafactory, and we expect to break ground on the first of those probably next
month, which is really quite soon. And then, shortly thereafter, maybe a month or two
after that, we'll break ground on the second one.
And I should also say that California is potentially back in the running, but it's still in
these sort of improbable – but it is back in the running, and the Governor and his
staff have really, I think, tried to do everything they can to make California a
significant candidate for the Gigafactory. The main thing with California is, it's got
nothing to do with incentives or anything like that; it's the time to completion of the
Gigafactory. I don't think we did a good job explaining why California wasn't on the
list of four states to begin with, and it's just because this is a large greenfield
construction project. California has quite a complex and lengthy process for
approval of greenfield sites.
And so what we couldn't afford was waiting like a year or more for permits to
proceed, which would (19:56) no environmental impact of any significance. But it
would just take a long time for California regulatory agencies to process the
information that they would need to fulfill their obligations under California law.
Whereas in other states it's a much more streamlined approach. And the vehicles
that we built in Fremont in California, if we don't have the Gigafactory online when
Page 7 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
we have the vehicle capacity online, we will actually be in deep trouble, because
we'll have all the equipment and tooling and people for making cars but not be able
to produce the battery packs. And so that was the reason why California wasn't
originally on the list.
Q - Adam Jonas {BIO 3339456 <GO>}
Okay.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
The Governor and Legislature are going to try to do something about that, but I
think the question of timing is still a big one, and they will also need to make sure
that the ongoing operational costs of the Gigafactory are not significantly worse than
other states. So I think, like I said, I think California is still in the improbable but not
impossible category at this point.
Q - Adam Jonas {BIO 3339456 <GO>}
Okay. Thanks. Thanks, Elon. And if I can just add a follow-up, when you're thinking
about the Gigafactory, is the idea to have just one dedicated full cell supplier like a
Panasonic, or is it possible that it could be Panasonic and kind of some "coopetition"
with another battery component or cell supplier making another part of the sub-cell,
cathode or anode, or is it kind of mutual or pure exclusivity for Panasonic, for
example?
And then finally on China, do you have – or the expansion of other manufacturing in
China or Europe – is that within the scope of your current capitalization and financial
resources, or is that something – or that of your expectation of your cash flow
generation – or is that another item on the list that might require new capital at some
point? Thank you.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. So the way the Gigafactory is set up right now is we – Panasonic would be the
only company producing cells in the Gigafactory. One way to think of Gigafactory is,
sort of like an industrial park under one roof. Tesla's producing the modules. Tesla is
sort of the overall I guess landlord. We're producing the modules and the battery
pack, then the cells would be produced by Panasonic, and then we'd actually have a
number of other companies producing a few precursors to the anode, cathode,
separator, electrolyte, and so forth that are then feeding into Panasonic.
However, going back to our original short presentation on the Gigafactory, you'll see
that the cell capacity target is around 35 gigawatt hours, but the pack capacity is 50.
So we expect to bring in cells from other cell factories in the world to make up
(23:10) roughly 15 gigawatt hours. And those would be – I would expect a lot of those
would be Panasonic cells. But to the degree that Panasonic isn't able to meet that
demand, there would be other suppliers as well.
Q - Adam Jonas {BIO 3339456 <GO>}
Page 8 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
Okay.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Q - Patrick K. Archambault {BIO 4638109 <GO>}
Good evening. Just a couple ones here. Just in terms of the cadence of some of the
OpEx items, I mean, maybe just like R&D specifically, Deepak, you described how
there's a sequential increase of 30%. I guess the first part of my question is how do
we think about it trending in the back half? And then, sort of longer term, how do we
see that as an expense as we sort of model out over the next couple years? I think
best-in-class vehicle producers probably have that in the mid-single digits as a
percentage of sales, but just given your growth profile, it would probably be higher.
Can you help us just to dimension that just as we think about our forward modeling?
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Yeah. In future quarters, as we go towards the end of the year and potentially next
year early, as Model X development is behind us, I would expect some reduction in
R&D spending. And then, of course, Gen III will pick up and other products that we
still have working. But to your broader point of percentage of revenue, we clearly
see that as revenue is going to pick up significantly. The percentage of revenue of
R&D expenses is going to be, I expect, in the single digits, high single digits, clearly.
So I think we won't be too far away in that sense from some of the other I would say
more growth-oriented companies – don't want to just put it against automotive –
because we will be doing more R&D in general.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Absolutely.
Q - Patrick K. Archambault {BIO 4638109 <GO>}
Okay, great.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
I think our R&D is maybe more limited by the pace at which we can recruit great
engineering talent and integrate it to the company rather than a budget.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Yes.
Q - Patrick K. Archambault {BIO 4638109 <GO>}
Got you. Okay. That's helpful. And then just as we think about the cadence of
deliveries, which is obviously very back-half loaded, but you're obviously confident
Page 9 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
in the 35,000. Can we just get a little bit more clarity as to what's driving sort of the
back-half inflection? Is it cell capacity? Is it that second production line coming on? It
seems like it's more supply driven than demand driven, but just wanted to get a little
bit more clarity on what's driving that sequential progression?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. The main thing in the first half of the year – and this is something actually I
mentioned I think late last year – is that for the first half of this year we're constrained
by cell supply. I mean, it is in the process of alleviating, and we expect that to really
start alleviating in the third quarter basically. And there's obviously a bit of a delay
because the cells are coming from Japan, so they've got to be produced and put on
the water and brought over here and that kind of thing.
But thus far, from what we see, things are on track to be able to at least meet but
probably exceed by a little bit the 35,000 targeted deliveries. Our production
number obviously will be higher than that, because the company is growing quite a
bit. And we've got a lot of vehicles that will be en route to various countries. And
then there is that other constrainer we mentioned, which is the vehicle production
line. So we'll actually be taking the Fremont factory down for roughly 10 days or so in
July to convert to the new line, which enables a substantial increase in our
production capacity on the vehicle side, as well as a labor-hours reduction. So, it's
fundamentally more efficient process.
So it is worth highlighting the point, because very often in the media it seems like
there's confusion between Tesla production and Tesla demand. For example, we're
sold out of Q2 production already. But the term sales usually means demand, but in
our case, sales means deliveries. It's not a measure of demand; it's a measure of how
many cars we were actually able to get to customers. If we'd been better at
production and delivery, we'd have delivered more cars.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Thank you.
Q - Patrick K. Archambault {BIO 4638109 <GO>}
Okay, thanks. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from Colin Rusch with Northland Capital Markets. Your line
is open.
Q - Colin W. Rusch {BIO 15823117 <GO>}
With the Model X, previously you talked about going into production before the end
of 2014. Can I just understand exactly what you're seeing with the prototypes being
done by the end of the year versus production, and how we should think about that
relative to the previous comments?
Page 10 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah, I mean, there's no question we're delayed on the Model X, although that's I
wouldn't say particularly new information. So relative to our earlier forecast, we had
to spend a lot more time making sure we got the Model S right, and it took longer to
get to some of the international markets and whatnot. So it just didn't make sense for
us to be focusing on Model X, if we didn't have our Model S house in order.
I think we're in a pretty good shape on the S front, so our focus is very heavily on the
X and – as to making sure it's a phenomenal product, and we expect to be delivering
production cars in roughly Q2 next year. We'll have the production design articles,
like, I guess beta articles or production-release candidates around the end of this
year, but we want to make sure we've got a decent period of validation with those
release candidate vehicles, because the production ramp for Model X will be much
greater than for S. So much deeper.
So with S we had quite a shallow production ramp; started off real slow and as we
encountered issues, we were able to correct them without having a large number of
cars from production on the roads. With X it's going to be sharp ramp, which means
we really need to make sure that we've properly validated issues and all
temperatures and climates and road types, that the car is really solid before ramping
up production, otherwise we risk having a recall or a bad customer experience.
Q - Colin W. Rusch {BIO 15823117 <GO>}
Okay. And then just one quick technical question. As you look at the components in
the materials inside of your cells, the quality of lithium. How much leverage do you
think you can get as you start to see higher quality of lithium from the supply chain?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
The quality of lithium, I'm not sure what you mean by -
Q - Colin W. Rusch {BIO 15823117 <GO>}
In terms of higher purity, I should say.
A - Jeffrey B. Straubel {BIO 16619298 <GO>}
That's really not been an issue. Yeah. That's not a big trade-off or driver of
performance. Really it's something that we're constantly looking at with the different
suppliers and trading off different processing mechanisms and different feedstocks,
and that can affect the pricing, but the ultimate purity doesn't really drive
performance of the final cell.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. I mean there are some things that are sort of a tricky – or that matter, like, for
example, like the anode, the structure of the carbon in the anode is important. I
mean, we use a very high percentage of synthetic graphite, because that gets a sort
of a more precise microstructure. So there's some potential trade-offs there as to
Page 11 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
how much work can be (33:04) put into creating the synthetic graphite. And I think
generally we want to probably aim for highly precise microstructure. So – which is a
little trickier to do. You don't want to just have the kind of random microstructure of
the stuff that came out of ground.
Q - Colin W. Rusch {BIO 15823117 <GO>}
Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from John Lovallo with Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.
Q - John D. Lovallo {BIO 16511598 <GO>}
Hey, guys. Thank you very much for taking my call. First question is, we've recently
had conversations with several of your customers in China and Hong Kong who have
placed firm orders, pretty high trim levels, and now are actually seeking refunds
because what they've discovered is that the electric wiring at the residential level is
so poor that charging equipment is not being permitted in their high-rise buildings.
So I guess the question is, I mean, are these one-off exceptions or are you guys
seeing a trend in this?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
No. We're not really seeing a lot of cancellations, at least I've heard. I think one of the
things is we have required of customers who place their deposit is that before they
take delivery of their car, we want to make sure that they have a wall connector
installed. But usually like the wiring situation (34:26) what max amperage the outlet
can be. So some places may be able to handle an 80-amp outlet, some maybe only
20 amps. But it's pretty unusual to see this. Something we are doing, though, in
China and other parts of the world is we're putting Superchargers in cities, not just
between cities. This is obviously in important places like Beijing, Shanghai, London,
San Francisco, New York, where at times people may have a challenge with having a
fixed parking space. So it's less about maybe the wiring thing, it's more like some of
those people don't have a definitive parking space; they might have street parking
or something. London is a particularly tricky one where there is – a lot of high end
neighborhoods just have street parking.
A - Jeffrey B. Straubel {BIO 16619298 <GO>}
Yeah. If I might add, there's been a lot of questions about the supposed poor quality
of the grid in China. But from what we've seen, installing hard wire and charging
equipment and Superchargers, it's actually been somewhat the opposite and been
quite a robust very new, actually – new equipment and new grid. So we have not
seen very many problems.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. No, exactly. In fact, it's exactly as JB said, it's – we've actually found, it's been a
positive surprise for us in China, not a negative one.
Page 12 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
Q - John D. Lovallo {BIO 16511598 <GO>}
Okay. And then for my second question, I think in the release, you mentioned that
North American deliveries were up I think 10% sequentially. So this would still imply
that they were lower for the first quarter and the second quarter of 2013 and about in
line with the third quarter. Is that a fair characterization?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Do you want to just -
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Yeah, John. Just to clarify, we said the orders in North America were up 10%, not
deliveries.
Q - John D. Lovallo {BIO 16511598 <GO>}
Okay. So how were the deliveries in the quarter in North America?
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
The deliveries were down. We were trying to reduce the lead time in Europe. We had
a long lead time there, and we were shipping a lot of cars into Europe, so that we
come to a more even lead time between North America and Europe.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. I mean, I think this is getting back to what I was talking about earlier, that it's
easy to confuse deliveries with demand. Deliveries and demand are not the same
thing for Tesla. They are for other car companies, but not for Tesla.
Q - John D. Lovallo {BIO 16511598 <GO>}
Okay. Thanks very much, guys.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
To be clear, we're are seeing a steadily increasing demand in North America.
Q - John D. Lovallo {BIO 16511598 <GO>}
Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - Rod A. Lache {BIO 1528384 <GO>}
Hey, everybody. It seems like you're making a lot of progress in terms of purchase
material and efficiency, just looking at the numbers. And what I'm looking at is, it
Page 13 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
looks like your products gross profit, you reported like $190 million last quarter, but
there was a gain in there, so maybe it was $180 million in Q4. And then this quarter,
you did $180 million including a charge. So it seems like your gross profit didn't
move, even though your revenue was down. I'm just hoping that you can maybe give
us a little bit of an update on where your incremental margins stand today. Just given
some of the progress that you've made – on a steady-state basis these incremental
units, what kind of conversion for incremental volume you've achieved today on the
gross profit line?
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Rod, I'm not exactly clear what your question is, but I think to your broader point,
there is gross margin improvement that's happening because of cost improvements
that we continue to achieve. And this is the internal roadmap that we have on a
variety of actions to achieve material cost reduction, some internally, some at our
suppliers, some through design. And those actions will continue throughout the
year, and that's why we feel comfortable that we will achieve 28% gross margin by
Q4.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah. I think a couple of important points I'd made here which is, so first of all,
overall we don't do any cost down if it makes the product worse. So that doesn't
really gain us anything, which – it's quite tempting to do that sometimes, and that
drives me crazy when companies in other – elsewhere in the car industry or in other
industries reduce costs by reducing value. That's not a good thing. So our cost
reductions are really aimed at figuring out how to get the molecules in the right
shape in a smarter way as opposed to trying to sort of strip value out. In fact, in a
number of cases we've actually added cost to the car because there is something
that needed to be improved. The underbody shield is an example of that. And our
gross margin in Q1 will be – we have a number of sort of charges that negatively
affected gross margin, would have been a little bit higher if it hadn't been for things
like for example the underbody shield activity. But I think we feel really comfortable
of achieving the 28% gross margin by the end of the year on the Model S front.
Q - Rod A. Lache {BIO 1528384 <GO>}
Okay. Thanks. And you indicated again in your release $650 million to $850 million
of CapEx this year. Can you give us some high-level thoughts on preliminarily what
next year might look like as you're starting to ramp up the Gigafactory? And also I
know that you made some reference to SG&A and R&D as a percentage of sales. But
I guess for your stage of development, I'm not sure that that's really applicable. Can
you give us an idea of how that might look on an absolute basis?
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Rod, it's a bit too early for us to give clearer guidance or thoughts on 2015 CapEx,
clearly 2015 at a high level will be dominated by spending on the Gigafactory as well
as we start to prepare for Gen III. I think much of Model S and Model X spending will
be behind us. There'll be some lagging Model X spending from a CapEx perspective
just before launch from a tooling and an equipment perspective. So there'll be a
Page 14 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
small change – or there will be a change in the categorization of spending. And then
beyond that, clearly we will continue to expand rapidly globally with our store
service centers and Superchargers. So that growth will continue, but I think we can
provide you a bit more clarity on that, perhaps a couple of quarters from now.
Q - Rod A. Lache {BIO 1528384 <GO>}
Okay. And just last one on China. When you do actually expand to domestic
production, do those requirements for 50-50 JV partners, do they apply to you, or
are there any exceptions for new energy vehicles, or do you actually have any
thoughts on that at this point?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
I think it's too early to make a prediction on that front. Yeah, so, I think we can't say
for sure how things will look at that time. I can say that we're postponing any serious
partnership discussions with the companies in China because we're still really at too
early a stage. So we're not trying to sort of run this to ground because we've got sort
of really basic priorities of getting service and supercharging all that in China and so,
yeah, we just don't have any – anything to say on that front yet.
Q - Rod A. Lache {BIO 1528384 <GO>}
Okay. Great. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from Ben Kallo with Robert W. Baird. Your line is open.
Q - Ben J. Kallo {BIO 16897436 <GO>}
All right. Thanks for taking my question. Back to the battery factory, can you talk
about the costs associated with running two sites in parallel, maybe three, and any
optionality you have there? And then adding maybe two more on top of it. One is,
how much work have you done as far as business development with stationary stores
to get comfortable with that that angle there? And then as far as additional investors,
should we wait to see them after Panasonic comes to the table? And I'll stop there.
Thanks, guys.
A - Deepak Ahuja {BIO 15935173 <GO>}
Well, there is – I mean, your first question was fundamentally, are we spending too
much money by working on two sites together, and I think as Elon has said a few
times, for us it's really critical that we have the first Gigafactory ready on time to
supply the sales for Gen III and that every one-month delay at that point is far more
expensive for us than the incremental cost that we may incur upfront to kick off two
sites at one time.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Absolutely.
Page 15 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
A - Jeffrey B. Straubel {BIO 16619298 <GO>}
Yeah, maybe I can speak to the stationary business development part of the
question. We have done a huge amount of work there, and we've talked to most
major utilities and energy service companies at this point. It's still early days in that
effort, and I think maybe the thing to focus on is, our long-term optimism looking at
the price versus cost of what we expect we could do, and the long-term demand for
stationary energy storage is quite extraordinary when you look at the size of the grid
and what needs to be done with renewable energy and buffering the variability of
that. So I think that's really where we keep our focus is on the long-term economics
that could be enabled once the Gigafactory is online.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Yeah, exactly. I mean, right now we're not trying to build demand for stationary
storage because we are cell constrained, so – kind of at the expense of vehicles. So
what we're doing right now is more on the engineering side figuring out what would
be a really cool stationary storage pack that could be produced at volume and that
could be combined, so you could stack a whole bunch of them if you wanted. So I
think particularly for like the home solution, I mean, the sort of thing we have in mind
is something that looks a bit like the battery pack in the Model S. So something really
flat just maybe takes, it's just sort of coming 5 inches off the wall, like wall mounted, a
beautiful cover, integrated bidirectional inverter, and it's just plug-and-play. That's
the sort of thing we have in mind for the stationary storage pack on the residential
front, which could conceivably you could stack a bunch of them and have something
that works commercially as well. But we'll probably want to talk about that in detail
end of the year or early next year or something like that.
A - Jeffrey B. Straubel {BIO 16619298 <GO>}
Yeah. And I think the third part of your question was about other participants in the
Gigafactory, and we are talking to various different people in parallel. I think it's
important to understand that there's a lot of aspects of this that Panasonic simply
doesn't do. So it's not necessarily a competition, but it's complementary, different
pieces of the production operation. So those discussions are under way, but it's
premature to talk about any specifics.
Q - Ben J. Kallo {BIO 16897436 <GO>}
Great. Thank you guys very much.
Operator
Next question comes from Craig Irwin with Wedbush Securities. Your line is open.
Q - Craig E. Irwin {BIO 6209023 <GO>}
Good evening. Thank you for taking my question. So, Elon, when you look at the
Chinese market, everybody knows that this is the largest luxury automotive market in
the world. But it's not a market that we have as much visibility as we might like. How
do you quantify the total opportunity for sales for Tesla? And what have you seen
Page 16 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
since you launched in China that surprised you or maybe that you didn't expect?
And how is this shaping the plans for your store map over there and the obvious
service centers and the other investments?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
I don't think – I think you probably know as much as I do about the demand for our
cars in China. So it's not as though I've got some incredible crystal ball. As you
mentioned, China is the biggest market for cars in the world, and actually the
biggest market for premium sedans in the world. So, to the degree that our sales
track that of other manufacturers presumably China would over time become the
biggest market for Tesla. I mean, that's probably the best guess that anyone could
make at this point. All I know in the short term is that we really don't have a demand
issue in China, like we've got a lot of demand. And so our focus then obviously is just
to make sure that that demand is serviced, and we're trying to roll out service centers
and Superchargers as fast as we possibly can. And my instructions to the China team
are to spend money as fast as they can spend it without wasting it, so I think that's
what's happening.
Q - Craig E. Irwin {BIO 6209023 <GO>}
Yeah, makes sense.
A - Jeffrey K. Evanson {BIO 1535168 <GO>}
Thanks, Craig. Patrick, let's make this the last question, please.
Operator
Our last question comes from Colin Langan with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - Rahul X. Chadha {BIO 16417961 <GO>}
Hi. This is Rahul Chadha on behalf of Colin. Can you help us understand the
difference in the variable cost structure for a Model S compared to a comparable
luxury sedan like maybe a BMW 7 Series? And other than the battery, which are the
key areas where you'll be able to cut costs as you go ahead and achieve scale?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
We don't really know what the gross margin is of individual product lines in other
companies. So it's difficult for us to make an exact comparison there. So I just don't
know how to answer that question exactly. As far as cost reduction, the cost of the
whole vehicle is not just in the battery pack; the battery pack is one portion of the
car, and it's maybe a quarter of the value of the car. It's not the overwhelming
portion of the car. So cost reduction is really coming across the board.
Q - Rahul X. Chadha {BIO 16417961 <GO>}
Are there any specific components which you see bigger opportunity to cut cost
and/or the process?
Page 17 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
The biggest single cost reduction within Q4 this year would be related to labor and
overhead, which as I mentioned earlier in the call, we have a much more efficient
production line that's going to come online in July, which has more automation, and
it's just set up in a better way. And so it's – making the car with greater labor
efficiency is the biggest single improvement. But there are really hundreds of
improvements across the board. And what it really comes down to is when you make
anywhere from like a $5 to a $100 improvement here or there and everywhere, soon
it adds up to a significant number. I wish there was like one place where there was
this one incredibly stupid super-expensive thing that if we fixed would suddenly
make the car cheap. That is unfortunately not the case.
Q - Rahul X. Chadha {BIO 16417961 <GO>}
Thank you. And then, do you have any update on the dispute with the dealer body?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
I think there was something that happened just today. I mean this stuff tends to be
reported in real time, so it's not like there's something that we know that is not public
information, but I think if the appeal in Massachusetts from the dealers was denied
today, so dealers – what's that?
A - Operator
(52:46)
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Hearing. Okay, the hearing.
A - Operator
(52:51)
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Sorry?
A - Operator
(52:51)
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Oh, we didn't. I thought we got something (52:54).
A - Operator
(52:56).
Page 18 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
That's all? Okay, fine. All right. So, no update on the dealer front.
Q - Rahul X. Chadha {BIO 16417961 <GO>}
Okay. Thank you.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Thanks.
A - Jeffrey K. Evanson {BIO 1535168 <GO>}
All right. Patrick, I apologize I cut off Craig Irwin there. If he's back in the queue, we
can take another question from him.
Operator
We have Craig Irwin in queue, Wedbush Securities. Your line is open.
A - Jeffrey K. Evanson {BIO 1535168 <GO>}
Go ahead, Craig. Sorry about that.
Q - Craig E. Irwin {BIO 6209023 <GO>}
Thanks, Jeff. No, not a problem. So really appreciated the comment in the
shareholder letter about 10% sequential growth in orders in North America. We
understand you're obviously capacity constrained and you've got great demand. But
one of the points of controversy is the potential for declining shipments into North
America. Can you maybe give us a commentary about your year-over-year order
rates in North America, whether or not you expect to continue selling Model S
vehicles at similar volumes once you've started to satisfy some of the European and
Asian demand?
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
We'd rather not make any additional predictions about deliveries. I mean, I see
demand in North America, and I can tell you, simply what we see is we see a steadily
increasing demand in North America. That's the information that we have. We don't
have something that's more predictive than that.
Q - Craig E. Irwin {BIO 6209023 <GO>}
That's helpful. Thank you.
A - Elon R. Musk {BIO 1954518 <GO>}
Okay.
Page 19 of 20
FINAL TRANSCRIPT 2014-05-07
Tesla Inc (TSLA US Equity)
A - Jeffrey K. Evanson {BIO 1535168 <GO>}
All right. Thank you, Patrick, for getting Craig back on the line. I appreciate that. So
this concludes our call. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. We look
forward to seeing many of you this month in New York. Next Monday, we'll be at the
Deutsche Bank Clean Tech Conference, and on Tuesday, we'll be at the Wedbush
Transformational Technologies Conference. And finally, at the end of May, we're
presenting at the Friedman Billings Ramsey Energy Technology Summit. So we hope
to see some of you at some of those conferences. Thank you, everyone. Have a great
day. Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's program. This
concludes the program. You may all disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and
other inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied
warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it
solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-
party agents shall have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses,
or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in
connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the
transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT
2024, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or
retransmission is expressly prohibited.
Page 20 of 20
